Hello, welcome everybody on the stream. Thanks for showing up. It's good to see everybody.
We've got Simon today and I'm excited about that.
Hey, Simon.
Hey, good to be here.
Let's jump into the podcast. So hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver
Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 243, recorded July
21st 2021 and I am brian ocken and I'm michael kennedy
And i'm simon willison
Welcome simon. Thanks for agreeing to show up today
No problem at all. I've been looking forward to this. if anybody doesn't know who you are, can we do it like quick? who's simon?
Sure. so yeah, my name is simon willison. I've been doing python bits and pieces for
around about 20 years now. So I'm a co-creator of the Django web framework from many, many years ago.
I think Django is definitely celebrating its 15th birthday now. But more recently I've been working on a set of open source tools
around this project I have called Dataset, which is a web application for exploring a relational database, a SQLite database,
but it also has tools for publishing those databases online, building those databases out of lots of different sources of data.
I'm trying to bootstrap an entire ecosystem of data and analytics tooling around SQLite because it turns out
Everyone in the world has SQLite even though that even though they don't necessarily know that they have it
And there's some really cool stuff that you can do with it. Yeah, it's a really cool project
Yeah, it is if you wanted to create your own personal search engine
That would let you just go and say search your gmail your twitter your instagram and your file system
All at once. Yeah, that's pretty much it, right?
That's part of the tooling. Yeah, there's a whole side of it, which is which i've called dog sheep for ridiculous reasons
But the dog sheep project is about personal analytics. It's about getting your personal tweets and
Messages and all of the personal data about yourself into one place
So you've got essentially a little mini data warehouse on your laptop that you can use to query aspects of your own life
And that's been a really fun way of driving features in the software, which can then be applied to like company databases and so forth
as well
Yeah, super cool.
Well, if I didn't want to do sequel light, I might want to use manga. What do you think?
You may want to and so there's some big news around manga db manga db5 is out
Which you know i'm all about manga db, which makes me super excited
Probably won't switch right right away because I don't actually need the features that are there
But i'm super excited to see things going strong. So
some of the things that are relevant.
And I think they're really relevant to Python people,
especially the data science side.
So basically there's two important things.
One has to do with working with time series,
and the other has to do with stability of the app
that you don't want to keep changing
so that you can upgrade your database, right?
Like if the database API slightly changes,
you don't wanna have to deal with those incompatibilities
until you're ready to take advantage of the benefits
of making those changes.
So one of the things that comes with is in the database
that are native time series, schemas and collection types.
- That's incredible.
- Yeah, so you can do really interesting things
like a moving average as a query across like data
and stored data in a format that's meant to make
that incredibly fast and low latency.
But you can also do like, I would like the numerical
derivative over time as a moving average,
as a query or the integral of this collection.
So you can do like math as part of your query
and get it to calculate those things
in really interesting ways.
So the time series has things like clustered indexes
and window functions and all sorts of interesting things.
So that's one.
It automatically optimizes your schema
for high-efficient storage, which is pretty cool.
That's I think independent of the time series,
but not a hundred percent sure.
It has the other big thing is the versioned API for future proof apps.
So suppose you build against version, I guess five is the one that has it.
So you build against version five of MongoDB.
And then eventually some point like version seven comes along and like,
oh, you can do this new way querying, but it's going to break some stuff.
So if you want to use it, you got to fix your app.
You can just say, I want the database to look like version five forever.
And no matter what version is in production,
is in production, it'll behave the right way
according to what you said you wanted it to behave right.
So you could say, I want version seven to be like five
for me, but it can be version seven for someone else,
that kind of thing.
- Right.
- Yeah, the other thing, the way that you talk to it,
the way that you interact with it is through
just a terminal app, you fired up or a command prompt app
and you talk to it.
And traditionally this thing has been gross.
It's been like, it's fine,
but it has zero syntax highlighting.
it has zero autocomplete, those types of things, right?
So they're introducing a new shell.
So traditionally, you would have typed Mongo, Enter, and connected.
Now you type Mongo SH,
because the old one is still there for compatibility reasons.
But that one now has syntax highlighting,
better error checking, pretty printing, autocomplete, things like that.
So if you're going to do stuff on the shell,
then you really should just run the new one.
That's pretty cool. I'm going to go with Mongosh as the...
Oh, my gosh, oh, my gosh, what are you doing?
Yeah, right on the shelf, the new one.
I know.
That's pretty awesome.
And then also they're talking about having serverless instances.
So like Lambda type functions,
where you don't actually have to manage the database or things like that.
So I didn't know a whole lot about it.
You can also watch the keynote and actually the whole conference,
but the keynote is probably most relevant here.
Turns out that it's for a public billion dollar company or whatever they're worth.
It's incredibly amateurish and more like a talent fair of a high school or something like that.
But whatever, you'll still learn.
I mean, you'll see.
It's super--
I have to check it out now.
Yeah, it's worth watching for the blush worthy.
Like, oh, chew.
Oh, oh, come on.
Okay, well, let's just move on now, please.
But nonetheless you do they do in demo some interesting things and whatnot
So that's probably enough on that. But if you're into manga db manga db5 has a lot of cool things to talk about there
Do you know what else is cool and coming up
uh python 3.11
We don't we don't even have python 3.10 yet so well I do
The beta is available for 3.10, you can run it.
But the alpha is around for 3.11, which is neat.
What I wanted to highlight here was enhanced error locations in tracebacks.
I'm so excited about this. This is so cool.
Python has not been that bad for tracebacks.
I've dealt with worse tracebacks,
but it points out what line is going on.
but sometimes there's like weird stuff,
like none, not dereferenceable or something,
and you don't know what's going on.
But now in 3.11, it will point to exactly
what part of the line has the error
with little carrots underneath
pointing exactly where it's at.
- That is actually super cool.
So like the example you got on the screen here
on the announcement,
you've got multiple objects accessing their fields
like .1.x, .2.x,
And the error is none type object has no attribute X,
which is probably the most common error
that you'll ever find in Python.
But what I like about it that you're pointing out here
is like the second object is the one that is none.
And it actually highlights, no, no, not the first one,
the second one, because there's nothing
about the error message that would tell you
which of these two things was the problem.
- Yeah. - That's awesome.
- Yeah, and it's deep into the,
so if you have a deep stack trace,
it'll show you exactly where into it.
And even, like, there's another example where it shows, like...
A four-level deep dictionary dereference or something, right?
And it points out exactly which index is the one that's messing up.
So that's pretty amazing.
Also, even arithmetic expressions, like a division by zero,
if you've got multiple divisions, which one is the problem?
Man, it'll show you exactly which one it is.
- The thing I love about this change
is this is one of those things,
this is absurdly difficult.
Like this is like acres of computer science
and a bunch of people working together on this
for I couldn't even imagine how long it took them to,
to make something which is just a beautiful
little incremental improvement
to our lives as Python developers.
But if you, the release notes actually talk about
some of the internal changes they had to make
that to get this to work.
This is like really deep stuff
And it's totally worth it for what you get out of it.
But I think it's easy to look at this and think,
"Okay, that's a reasonably sensible small change."
And this was not a small change at all.
And I think it's going to dramatically increase
the on-ramping of new people into Python
because being able to figure out what's wrong with your code,
that's basics.
I mean, some of us old hatters are used to digging into confusing tracebacks.
But some new people are not.
So if we can make them less confusing, that'll be great.
- Right.
When I work with new programmers, it's so common.
You get a, they get a trace back and they freeze
because this utter, utter meaningless junk
has just shown up on their screen.
And what are they supposed to do with that?
And here it feels like this is just such a huge improvement
because at least it's pointing to the bit
in the giant blob of text
that they should be paying attention to.
- Yeah, it's lovely.
Yeah, I want it in 3.10 though.
But we have to wait till 3.11.
- From futures, import nice stack trace or trace back.
Yeah, very cool.
All right, so Simon, you got the third one.
Tell us all about it.
- Okay, so fly.io are a hosting provider
who I've been thought, they launched about a year ago.
I've been following along
'cause they're doing some really interesting stuff
around hosting Docker containers
and all my stuff is in Docker containers.
So I'm always looking for things
where I can throw a Docker container
or the host online.
Their secret sauce is that they do geographic hosting.
So you can ask them to run your container
in like Tokyo and San Francisco and London,
and they will do that and they will direct traffic
to the closest version of that app.
So it's this thing, I worked at Eventbrite for many years,
and one of the things I was always trying to figure out
was, okay, could we run Eventbrite close to our users?
Could we have like European, a database in Europe
and a database in New York
and give people a faster experience that way?
Incredibly difficult to do.
- Right, what a lot of people do is they do CDNs,
So the static content, but then there's one server somewhere.
That's really the one, right?
Yeah.
It's the database, it's the application code, and then it's
the database server, especially.
And so what Flydl and Aya are doing is making it so much easier to do this,
that you could start a project and have it geographically distributed from day
one without having to think particularly hard about it.
So I like that about them.
And they wrote this, this, this article came out within the last week, I think.
And it talks about their plan for multi-region databases.
In that case, they're talking about Postgres and this desire to have Postgres
data, have like Postgres database distributed around the world.
And so when you're doing that.
Splitting up your having rights to multiple places remains incredibly difficult, but
a very common pattern is you say, okay, we're going to have the, the leads database
is in, I dunno, New York and that all of the rights go to that.
And then any of the reads get spread out to a replica database that's running in
different places around the world.
And that's still a really difficult thing to set up with the geographic load balancing.
So what they propose is basically run your application all the way around the world and set it up so that if anyone tries to write to the database and they're not talking to the leads database server, the error gets caught.
And the application server replies to fly CDN and say, it says, Hey, we run this request against the leader database in New York.
And so the user doesn't see anything at all.
The user attempts to do something and it works.
And what's actually happened is they tried to do a right against Tokyo.
Tokyo said, oh, we can't handle lights fly invisibly, sort of
internally redirected to New York.
The right happened against New York and the result came back.
And so this takes geographic, geographically distributing your database
weeds, which used to be, I mean, I was thinking it was going to be a team of
engineers for six months to get this working and it's just baked into their
platform. It's, it's this incredibly elegant piece of, sort of systems
engineering design that they've done.
And I, I was fascinated.
I've banged my head against this problem for so long
and they just solved it.
They just said, "Hey, here's a way that will work.
We've shipped it, try it out."
As something of a architecture nerd,
this really fascinated me.
- This is fascinating, yeah.
And I can see just, we've got like the retry decorators
and stuff for various Python functions.
I could see almost a,
Like retry the right decorator that you put on them and it just goes it catches the error and it just goes
Nope, we're gonna send it everywhere it goes and then then return the result, right? Like yeah
It's basically put decorators anywhere. You're gonna ever do a right and you're good to go
Exactly. And in fact, they they've even got example code for ruby on rails. We don't even have to do that
They catch the database error that says, you know
You tried to do a right in a read-only transaction and they turn that into an hdb header that replays it against the lead
Region and that's it. It's like this. It's in on the one hand. It's kind of an awful kludgy hack
But it's also genius like this is taking six months of engineering work and turning it into
Add these five lines of code now your application works all the way around the world. I'm
It's yeah fascinates me
Yeah, this is this is pretty interesting
Yeah, and also i've got there's one other link in the show notes
There's a second article they put out a few days ago, which is just doing something
It's it's more about using redis as a cache in your geographical data centers so you can have a local redis
um, like because I mean their argument is
People in london tend to be interested in other things that people in london are interested ditto for tokyo
So actually distributing your cache by city
Normally gives you really good cache hit rates
But they also pointed out that I didn't know that redis could do this redis can be set up to allow rights
To supposedly read-only replicas so you can have a local cache that you're writing to and reading from but still have that leader redis
In your main data center that can send rights out to all of those replicas
So that gives you cache invalidation from a central point you can in your sort of lead redis
You can say okay everyone delete the cache entry for whatever this thing is and all of those replicas around the world
will then delete that cache entry even though normally they're acting independently.
And yeah, it's again, this is for if you're a systems architecture design nerd,
the stuff that they're doing is so interesting.
I think it's interesting and I'm not one of those.
Maybe you are and you didn't realize.
You will be next year. You will be next year. Fantastic. Yeah, this is super cool as well.
Yeah, it seems really useful, you know, and it's perfectly in line with like, let's take our app and put the logic in multiple places.
Because that person is unlikely to move from Tokyo to Virginia during a session.
Right, once they start in one place, they're going to stay in that place.
So the cache would reasonably just have like their local data on that one instance, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, cool. But maybe your CDN or not your CDN, your CMS is like generated a page and
everybody needs that always to be in sync, right? There's that global data as well. Yeah. So very
cool. I like this. Check it out. - Neat.
- Neat indeed. - Well, let's talk about unicorns.
- I love the unicorns. So unicorns, the magical creature. And Simon, I'm so glad that you're here
because we can get your thoughts on this, even if you maybe haven't been like deep down in it.
So not too long ago, we talked about HTMX,
which I'm still a big fan of HTMX.
It's a cool like sprinkling of magic
onto JavaScripty stuff onto your page
to make it more interactive.
But if you're doing Django, HTMX is very relevant,
but there's also this thing called Django Unicorn
at django-unicorn.com.
It's a magical full stack framework for Django.
So the idea is that you can create these templates,
these interactive templates without going and rewriting everything in like some front-end
framework like React or something like that. You can skip the JavaScript build tools because you
know you got a lot less of that and you can skip a bunch of serializers and just use Django for like
the API bits. So you install Unicorn, you create a component, and then at the top of your template
you put load, you know, %load Unicorn, and then you could just give it a one of these names. So
So for example, here's a little task.
Task one is tell people about unicorn.
I can add that.
Has too many.
We'll tell people about unicorn.
And you can see like this cool little thing is interacting
and it's not refreshing the page, right?
It's like a front end framework type of thing.
But the way that you write it is you just put
like some extra template pieces on there
like unicorn colon prevent, submit, prevent,
and we're going to do this add function instead.
And if somebody hits the escape key,
we're going to change the value.
And that's not JavaScript.
Those are just HTML attributes,
but they turn into JavaScript, right?
Which is very cool.
So, and then you just put your regular
Django template business down and off it goes.
And it turns it into basically something
that's way more front-end framework friendly.
Simon, what do you think?
- So as far as I can tell, the real magic here
is that they're doing the trick
where you render the HTML on the server,
in this case, we using your Django template,
and then they send back JSON with a blob of HTML
in which you then essentially write into an inner HTML
to update the page.
And I love this, like this is sort of,
I've always been a big fan
the progressive enhancement method of writing JavaScript where you get the stuff to more
or less work without any JavaScript at all, and if there's JavaScript, you get in-page
page updates and all of that kind of thing. But there's also one of the problems I've
seen with all sorts of - lots of engineering shops that try and do that is that you end
up writing your templates twice. You have the Django templates that know how to do something,
and then you have front-end templates using React or handlebars or whatever that know
how to do something, and you have to keep those in sync, which is an enormous waste
of time for everyone involved. So what they're doing here then is they're handling that,
they're cleaning up that inconsistency for you. You write a Django template, they can then
use that template in Python code to generate just that fragment of HTML, send
that back and have that displayed on the page. So yeah, I think this is a really interesting approach.
I've not spent much time with Django Unicorn itself, but it also reminds me a bit of the
I think it's called hot hot hot wire. Yeah, we'll be on a little bit built this
very exciting, um framework again against these kinds of principles just shipping blobs of html back and forth. I feel like it's
Something like the the mad rush towards single page applications over the past 10 years has mostly resulted in applications that
Load slower and uh take take take longer for people to build and they're so inconsistent and they make me so crazy
for example, I'll go to like a bank or something and I'll say, all right, I'm going to run my one
password, pre-fill the page, and you'll see it fill out the page. And then you try to submit it,
it goes, please fill out this field. And there's clearly like an email address or something there.
What do you got to do? Go put a space, delete the space. So the JavaScript event triggers
because they're like, not really, not really HTML. It's all that junk. And it's just like,
Yeah, you know what I mean, but it's what people actually want is they don't want a full page reload
Like anyone who's getting into single page apps and so on really they just don't want that flicker when the browser reloads everything
So using this trick where if javascript is available you update a section of the page using stuff that came back from an ajax api
Totally works and that that feels like the model here and also the hotwire model from wales
Exactly. Yeah, so the htmx the hotwire and this it's all about
Let's not write new stuff
Let's just take the views and the templates already doing their magic and let's just
Put the little pieces in there to make them dynamic, which i'm all about this. This is great
What i've missed is why is this a django thing? Is it is it because it uses the django?
Templates or is that?
It looks like it. Yeah, it looks like the the magic here is that it's using django templates. so in the view as well
It provides its own views to us because it needs to provide views that have provided json api where you can send it data
From a form it then renders that django template in python code and then sends you back the stuff
So there's two sides to this right as the python
Django view functions i've written but they've also written a sort of eight kilobyte. I think of javascript that that hooks it up on the front end
Cool, nice. Yep. Yeah, very neat. So
Not very much code at all to get
your Django to become more dynamic, which is great.
>> Yeah. I don't think unicorns are blue.
>> I'm not really sure what color unicorns.
I feel like they could be any color.
They might be rainbow, but actually that's not a rainbow.
>> That's not a rainbow.
I want to talk about blue.
I think I'm ready to have tomatoes thrown at me or something for bringing this up.
But so blue is an alternative to black.
Anyway, so I love black. I think black's awesome.
But there are times where you can't use it for specific reasons.
And I'm thinking here basically about the decision that Black made to default to,
not a default, but enforce double quotes on strings instead of single quotes.
There are some code bases where there's already a standard to use single quotes.
And then there's also code bases where there's so many strings that actually have mixed quotes.
Quotes, you've got a single quotes and then double quotes inside and you know mine end up mixed sometimes because if I want to put
Quote something in the actual string. I'll use single quotes on the outside. But if I'm gonna say it's a
Good idea. I'll put double quotes on the outside
So I don't have to escape the single quote, you know
Like if if you're gonna have one of the quotes in the string then just go with the other one often something I'll end up
Oh, but actually, Black does that for you.
If you've got a string with a single quote in, or a string with a double quote in, that's
the one time that Black will use single quotes, which is kind of neat.
Okay, that's good.
Good to know.
I do like that.
But okay, so if this is, the sticking point is really just the quotes, then maybe try
Blue.
So Blue is actually, I was worried there was going to be a fork of Black.
It's not a fork.
sort of includes black and it overwrites some of the functionality,
specifically just a few things.
So the differences are it defaults to single quotes strings,
except for places where we love double quotes,
like doc strings and triple-quoted strings.
For some reason, those look weird with single quotes.
So I'm on board with that.
It defaults the line lengths to 79,
And I don't really care because I always override that to 120 or something like that.
And I like that Black allows that overriding.
And then the other thing that I didn't even think about, which is kind of nice,
is one of the things Black does is
takes the hash, like if you have hash comments on your right side of your code,
if you've got a block of them,
like maybe you're talking about an entire block of code, so you have a block of comments,
Black will remove the white space in front of the hash,
whereas blue will leave those alone,
so you can have block comments on the side.
That's really it. That's the only difference.
I think having this around is a neat thing.
Interesting quote from the doc is that they actually
don't want to keep this project alive for very long.
They'd really like these to just be options in black.
[LAUGHTER]
I don't know how viral they'll get.
I don't think that's going to happen.
I think Black is pretty hardcore,
guaranteed, like they're very into
not adding configuration where they can still avoid it.
>> Yeah. In researching this,
one of the things I somehow missed about Black,
maybe I haven't read the documentation in a long time,
but a couple of years ago,
it added the ability to have format off and format on.
One of the things, for instance,
Occasionally, not very often, occasionally I've got a large chunk of data
set up in a list or a dictionary or something
that I have aligned with comma alignment,
like an old-style CSV table.
- And Black totally... - Or a 1980s C programmer.
Yeah, sure. But Black totally tears that apart.
But for that you can you can turn formatting off and I appreciate that. That's cool. That's a good feature
See it does have a little bit of a little bit of give
But yeah, so yeah, that's cool
Yeah, very good one very good one
What you got next oh
Okay. so this is there's a link in the show is this
There's an article that somebody wrote about using Tesseract OCR to build yourself a searchable
index of your screenshots.
And I got really excited about this because Tesseract is like, Tesseract's been around
since 1995, I think.
It started off at Hewlett-Packard, and it's pretty much still the leading light of OCR
in the open source space, but I've never managed to get it to work.
And I've always wanted OCR that I can just run.
And thanks to this article, I can actually use Tesseract now.
Sorry, I've got a couple of demos here.
Can we see this?
Yeah, so I grabbed a screenshot just of the random slide
from our conversation earlier, and I can run,
let's see, I think it's tesseract screenshot.png.
I'll put it in a file called screenshot-.
You have to tell it the language that you're using
because that affects how it does these things.
And it supports like 70 languages, I think.
And I'm gonna say, I want that as a TXT file.
And you run it.
And now if I cat screenshot.txt,
This is the launch today, MongoDB 5.0.
This is the screenshot I took of our conversation earlier.
A better example even would be the,
I took a screenshot of Python documentation just now.
So I can run that same command,
except I'll do it against Python docs.png.
Python docs.png, I'll call it pscreenshot.
There we go.
Okay, and now if I cat this,
this is pretty decent OCR against
a screenshot of a file of documentation.
The really fun thing though is that you can say you want it as a PDF file.
If you do that, it will give you a PDF which is visually
identical to the screenshot but has selectable text on it.
So you can copy and paste out of that PDF.
So the chap whose article is linked in the notes,
his trick is he has a folder on his computer that he saved screenshots to,
and he has a automated script that then
Turns those screenshots into these annotated pdfs, which means that spotlight on his mac can now search them
So anything that he drops into that folder a few seconds later becomes available to global search on his computer
I think that's a really neat trick. I love it
That's great
then the um
So yeah, there's so much stuff I want to do with this. Um
Uh, yeah, it was alex. alexandre. Ned nedl. Sue. I don't know if i'm pronouncing that correctly and wrote all of this up
um
But yeah, it's it's you can install with homebrew. It's brew install tesseract
There's actually a python library called pi. I think it's called pi tesseract
Which I thought was doing complicated things with c modules. Actually if you read the source, it's just shelling out to this command. So
Apparently that's the state of the art in in python. ocr is shell out to the tesseract command line tool
Which i'm perfectly happy to do, you know
Yeah, that's neat
I really like this, you know, it's if you've got a bunch of image data and you want to be able to do interesting things with it
Like here's a really quick and easy way to do it, right?
Right
It's super simple the um this article also I didn't know that you could use the mac
Launch d I think you can use you can add a launch agent
Which automatically runs a script when a file is saved in a certain folder
So in this case, he's got a launch script that runs the the test rack to ocr stuff
But this is great right now. I can automate any folder on my mac to do basically anything
Using this system that's built into the operating system, but I didn't know how to use
I didn't know you could do that either. That's great
That's yeah. Yeah, that's awesome
I feel like this is right up your alley simon, you know with the
The data set the dog sheep and like oh, here's this data we got from this automation and yet
I just can't dig into it and now you can
I'm really excited about this.
Although, so Apple Photos, the next version of macOS,
Apple Photos is going to do OCR
on all of your photographs for you.
So you can search for text in pictures that you've taken.
And if it's anything like the current version of OSX Photos,
all of that data is gonna be stored
in SQLite databases on your computer.
Like I've been having a huge amount of fun
building things against my Apple Photos library
because they already run machine learning labeling
against your photos, they know when you take a photo of a dog
and they tag it with dog.
And the word dog is in a SQLite database on your computer.
So once you've figured that out, you
can run SQL queries against photos you've taken
and say, show me every photo I've
taken of a dog that was in San Francisco in the month of May.
And you get results back, which is crazy interesting.
Yeah.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, that's super cool.
I love the stuff that you're doing with that.
Is it just local or is are they caching that?
In their own databases as well
Oh, well, so they synchronize it all
So if you're using icloud your photos are synchronized up to their servers
That you take a photo on your phone. It shows up on your computer automatically
But all of its the actual local data storage is all sqlite database files. Apple are really big into sqlite
So yeah
There are just these files littering your computer with your address book in there and all of your i messages and all of your photo
Metadata, it's just sat there waiting for you to to dig in and play with it
nice
With data set probably
Right. Yep. I am i've i've i've i've i've got a script called. i'll add it to the show notes
I've got a script called dog sheep
Um photos which uploads your photos to your s3 bucket so that you can actually link to them embed them on web pages
And it extracts all of that sqlite data into it into a more usable format
So yeah, i've got a online database of all of my photographs that I update every now and then with the script and it works
It's phenomenal what you can do with it
Okay
Out in the live scene, brandon. Hey, brandon says this is fantastic. Definitely excited
And also taking a step back to yours. Brian david colton. Hey david says i'm using double quotes now in black
But my typing has not evolved yet to double quotes
So you just pass it through the single quote to double quote compiler process called black and then you got it all adapted
That's nice
I'd say like black has given me back
I estimate five percent of my program typing time used to be worrying about indentation and such like and I got all of that
Back like thanks to black. I never even think about how I indent or style my code at all
I just say I I'll literally write horrible run on lines that go on for ages
And then run black and it formats it nicely and I forget about it. It's it's wonderful. It's fantastic
That's yeah, yeah great
Um got any extras for us michael, you know, I do I always do unless I have an extra extra extra
Here all about it. Then I guess I still do so
We talked about strong typing last time,
which lets you do cool stuff like
go and put a decorator
onto a function and say,
well, this one, you know, if it has type annotations or type information,
like Python itself just does,
if you put @match typing the decorator on there,
it'll verify at runtime that
you said it took an integer and you actually passed an integer,
not a list or whatever to that parameter, right?
- Yeah. - Well, Felix,
who maintains this project,
reached out and said, "Hey, that actually does
"a whole lot more.
"You should check some other things out."
I just wanted to highlight a couple things
that he pointed out.
One, if we, you know, we're all familiar
with the named tuple,
and you say the type name in a quote,
and then you say the fields or the elements,
attributes in a list, either spaced or comma separated,
like spell, mana, effect, and so on.
So this one has a typed name tuple
where you can put the type information
in very similar ways to what Python would have
like colon str, colon list and so on.
And then you get actual type runtime validation
that your data going into your names tuple
is actually the type of data you expect in your name tuple.
- Oh, nice.
- Isn't that neat?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
Yeah, so there's that.
And then also, I love this about our show.
It kind of blows my mind that this, this is how the world works.
And I really appreciate this.
Everyone who plays along, we'll say things like, Oh, I wish we
could specify indexes in Beanie.
Then like the next episode, we're like, Hey, look, Roman added
a way to do indexes in Beanie.
And I said, this is awesome.
That applies to functions, but why couldn't it apply to classes?
It's basically the same thing.
And so now six days ago, we have a new feature.
You could also apply strong typing to classes as well,
or something like that.
So well done, well done.
- Is it because you asked for it?
'Cause I mean, I asked for single quotes in black
and I didn't get that, but.
- Well, I mean, it also may depend
on the size of the project.
The more input they get,
the less influence any individual statement
may have on it, right?
Yeah, anyway, I feel like thanks for working on that
and the extra information there.
- Yeah, anything else?
- I actually, one other thing, yes.
I have finally, I've been working to make sure
that we don't have to have one of these completely useless,
dreadful, like talks on technology.
Our site uses cookies.
Here's our cookie policy.
Do you accept our cookie policy
or do you not accept our cookie policy?
AKA, would you like our website to work
or would you like to go away?
Like that's kind of what the button so often means.
what the button so often means, right?
And so I thought I removed all the analytics,
I removed anything else that we might be doing third party,
we're good.
And I went to Python Bytes and I'm like,
wait, there's DoubleClick, there's Facebook,
there's Google, there's like, what is all this stuff?
And we started including the live stream YouTube embed.
And it started bringing back,
and I'm like, why would Google be putting in Facebook?
That sucks.
And there was also the Discus conversation stuff
that people haven't really stopped using.
They all just go and chat on the YouTube streams now
if they wanna have a live comment type of thing.
So I'm like, well, I'll just take that out.
That got rid of the Facebook one.
And then, but what do you do about that?
So instead of embedding the YouTube player,
I said, I'm gonna figure out a way to get the picture
automatically from YouTube, the poster.
And then when you hover over it, it just has a play icon.
and it opens up a new window.
And I thought I was all clever
by just putting the image there,
but serving it from Google, no.
There's now like the YouTube image servers
putting tracking cookies on our site.
I'm like, "Well, come on, why is this so hard?"
So now on the server, we use requests,
we download the image anytime it has to be shown on a page,
put it in MongoDB,
and then if you pull it, we serve it back out
so we can like strip the cookies,
the tracking cookies out.
cookies out.
And now, now
when you look at the tracking content,
none detected on the site.
But why, why world does it have to be so
hard? I just want to put a picture. Is it amazing
how it used to be YouTube embeds were the
absolute gold standard for embedding video
on a web page? Like why would
you do anything else? And now actually
I'm beginning to think, you know what
host the video the .mp.mod file or
whatever yourself
and stick on an HTML5 video embed
and that's probably a better
experience for your users as well.
Because, you know, when they click the video
on their mobile phone, it'll play full screen
and they won't have to hop through to the YouTube app
and all of that kind of thing.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, so anyway, just quick shout out, like,
this is taking several passes,
but I think it's finally 100% no tracking.
I mean, we weren't putting it there before,
but like it was seeping in from just like
what we might include on the page as content, right?
And so anyway, there you have it, Brian.
That was my weekend.
-How was yours? -Nice. Well, thanks.
I appreciate you doing all that work for us.
Yeah.
David Cullen has the wash hands emoji.
-There we go. We're all better. -Yeah.
Well, I've got no extras.
Simon, do you have anything extra you want to share?
I've got one. So, Textual is the...
Will McGugan, who's working on Witch, has been building Textual,
which I know you've talked about on the podcast before.
What I would encourage people to do is pay close attention
because I've never seen a piece of open source software
developed this quickly.
Like every day he's posting this video where he's like,
oh, and here's the new feature where today he posted a video
of it doing full like tree view on a file system,
which you could interact with with your mouse
in the terminal.
And when you clicked on the file,
it would open it in a separate panel
with syntax highlighting.
It's absolutely astonishing.
It's like turning into one of the better ways
Building a gooey application and it's running in in text in the terminal
We can almost have just a section of the show called. What's what's will up to you really could absolutely
He's re-implemented css grid the css grid mechanism
For terminal applications, it's brilliant. And yeah, i'm just having such great time watching him do all of this stuff
And he seems to be live streaming it
I don't think so, but he posts like little five minute videos on twitter every day
Stuff that he's doing
But I I feel inadequate watching him work this fast, but just saying
It's such a delight though
It's like he was he was born to build this piece of software and now he's building it and we all get to watch him
Do it. Yeah, that's great
Yeah, henry shredder. Hey out in the live stream says textual is amazing indeed. It's it's quite uh quite something
Yeah, and I know I remember when he was trying to name it and textual didn't even come up on my radar as something that might be possible, but it's it's so obvious now like graphical and textual. Yeah, makes sense. It's cool. So, hey, about a joke, maybe.
Oh, man, I got some jokes for us. Two jokes. The one I'm not really sure how to convey it. But I guess I'll do my best.
- I don't know what you're saying.
- No, man, this is you, this is you, brother.
All right, so first one here is,
I could definitely do this one.
This one is from John on Twitter,
but pointed out to us by Nick Moore,
who was previously on the show not too long ago.
Thanks, Nick.
And this one poses, I think also this is perfect
for when Simon is on the show.
It says, "What do you get when you select star
"from goblins, dragons, elves, comma, unicorns?"
- A query tale.
- Oh my goodness.
- It's a fairy tale, a query tale.
It's bad.
- It's terrible, it's bad.
- Oh, wow.
- Well, I wanted to share one
that people could actually share with their,
this isn't in the list,
but one that I just read recently,
people might be able to share with their kids.
In the Northwest, we've got Sasquatch, right?
So, you know what they- - Bigfoot, yep.
- Yeah, what do they call Bigfoot in Europe?
Big meter
Quick tip if you're ever near Santa Cruz in California
There is a Bigfoot museum in a log cabin in the woods outside of Santa Cruz called the Bigfoot discovery experience
And it is not a joke
It is very serious and there is a man there who will take you through all of his evidence for Bigfoot
And it takes about an hour. He's got maps and plaster casts of feet footprints and a map with pins on it and bit it's
Fascinating I could not recommend it more. Yeah, I wonder if the COVID
Pandemic has affected the Bigfoot population. Oh you you should well go go go
You can call him up and ask him. Well, I was talking to him
He got a phone call to answer questions about Bigfoot. So he will
Yeah
Hey, Brian, your joke got it grown all the way from Australia.
Nice.
Or was it mine? I'm not sure. It could have been either, honestly.
Yeah.
I'm going to go with the meter one.
They were both pretty bad.
I'll see what I can do with this next one here. So if you're a kid of the 90s, I guess,
guess is probably the time. There's a pinky in the brain.
And apparently, on one of the 10 places I have to write your
name, I typed it too quickly and wrote brain.
And break and caught it.
So he did a take on pinky in the brain. And it starts out, what
do you want to do today, Brian?
Same thing we do everything with everyone's day, Michael help
Python take over the world.
- Ah, it's Michael and the brain.
Yes, Michael and the brain.
One's into testing, others into GUIs.
They're both into making Python seem sane.
They're Michael, they're Michael and the brain, brain, brain.
Yeah, yeah.
Fantastic. - I love it.
- Thank you. - Phenomenal.
- We need to have somebody that's got like musical talent
to actually put this together as something.
So, anyway. - Yes.
Someone who is not me 'cause it won't come out well.
So we'll put it in the, with the lyrics in the show notes,
I think we should leave them there.
- We are accepting submissions.
- Yes.
- And if they are, if they pass,
we may actually play them on one of the next episodes.
- Oh, I'd love it.
- Could be the new theme song, Brian.
- Yeah.
- The dawning of an era.
- I'm getting tired of the old theme song.
- Yeah, exactly.
Which is no theme song.
(laughing)
- All right, well, thanks a lot for showing up, Michael.
And thanks, Simon.
- Yeah, thanks for having me.
- Yep, you bet, bye everyone.
- Okay.
[BLANK_AUDIO]